Review GridFTP installation doc (software-3073) (#643)
opensciencegrid/docs: docs/data/gridftp.md

About This Guide
----------------

> This page explains how to install the stand-alone Globus GridFTP server which is an extension of the File Transfer Protocol (FTP) for grid computing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This page explains how to install the stand-alone Globus GridFTP server, which is an extension of the File Transfer Protocol (FTP) for grid computing.
```

To configure which virtual organizations and users are allowed to use your GridFTP server, follow the instructions in
[the LCMAPS VOMS plugin document](/security/lcmaps-voms-authentication#configuring-the-lcmaps-voms-plugin).

### Set port ranges
As mentioned above, GridFTP uses port 2811 for control communication as well as a range of ports for the data transfer.
This range of ports has to defined by setting the variable `GLOBUS_TCP_PORT_RANGE` within the configuration file:
`/etc/sysconfig/globus-gridftp-server` as it is shown in the next example. This range has to be open within your firewall for inboud communication.

    :::file
    $GLOBUS_TCP_PORT_RANGE 50000,51000

Starting the service
------------------
Once you have finished configuring the service and have set the port range, it is time to start the service.

for CentOS 7:

```console
systemctl start globus-gridftp-server
```

for CentOS 6:
```console
service globus-gridftp-server start
```

Validating GridFTP

> ------------------

Reviewer 2: I'd like to move this section back to after the `Managing GridFTP` section and turn it into a step-by-step procedure that validates file transfer as well the gratia probe bits:

> 1. Acquire a user certificate (link to https://opensciencegrid.org/docs/security/user-certs/)
> 1. Find your subject DN (`openssl -in...`)
> 1. Add your DN to `/etc/grid-security/grid-mapfile` and map it to a non-root user (link to https://opensciencegrid.org/docs/security/lcmaps-voms-authentication/#mapping-users)
> 1. As the non-root user, generate your proxy
> 1. Do file transfer (if you have them transfer a file, you should make sure they create it or it's one that definitely already exists)
>
> Also here's how to validate Gratia
>
> 1. ...

Author: I think it is easier to understand and work with these two things separately. For me it was easier to configure and test the GridFTP part and then configure and test the Probe. If you still think that it's better to keep it together I will do the change

Author: what about leaving the structure like this:
-Configuring GridFTP
-Managing GridFTP (add starting the service here as suggested)
-Validating GridFTP (adding the step by step procedure suggested)
-Monitoring
 -- Enabling GridFTP Gratia Probe
 --Starting the service
 --Validation of GridFTP Gratia Probe

Author: hearing none, I just followed your suggestions

> The GridFTP service can be validated by using `globus-url-copy`, you can get this tool by installing the package

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The GridFTP service can be validated through `globus-url-copy`, which is available via the `globus-gass-copy-progs` package:
```

> ```globus-gass-copy-progs```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

authenticated in the GridFTP server.
Make sure that the your proxy has a VO extension of a VO that is allowed in the GridFTP Server, i.e. it is listed
in the file `/usr/share/osg/voms-mapfile-default` and it has a unix account on the server.

```console
voms-proxy-init -voms cms
```
Having created a valid proxy, the result of the following command should be to have the file "zero.source", which
exists on /tmp in the machine where you are executing the command into the GridFTP server on /tmp/zero

```console
root@host # globus-url-copy file:///tmp/zero.source gsiftp://yourhost.yourdomain/tmp/zero
root@host # echo $?
0
```

To verify that the authentication is working, we could remove our proxy `voms-proxy-destroy` and execute the same
command again, this time it should fail. Keep in mind that when invoked as root, `globus-url-copy` will attempt to use
the host certificate instead of your user certificate, which could produce confusing results.

Monitoring
-------------------

### Enabling GridFTP transfer probe

The OSG monitoring of GridFTP is carried out by the GridFTP Gratia Probe which is installed by the package:
`gratia-probe-gridftp-transfer`

> Assuming you installed GridFTP using the `osg-gridftp` or `osg-se-hadoop-gridftp` rpm, this package will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Assuming you installed GridFTP using the `osg-gridftp` or `osg-se-hadoop-gridftp` RPM, this package will
```

| UserVOMapFile                   | No                                                                                         | This should be set to /var/lib/osg/user-vo-map; see below for information about this file.                                                 |
| SuppressUnknownVORecords| Maybe | Set to 1 to suppress any records that can't be matched to a VO; 0 is strongly recommended. |
| SuppressNoDNRecords             | Maybe                                                                                      | Set to 1 to suppress records that can't be matched to a DN; 0 is strongly recommended.                                                     |
| EnableProbe                     | Yes                                                                                        | Set to 1 to enable the probe.                                                                                                              |

> #### Selecting a collector host ####

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Selecting a collector host ###
```
We try to stay away from single sub-sections

#### Selecting a collector host ####

The collector is the central server which logs the GridFTP transfers into a database. There are usually two options:

> 1. **OSG Transfer Collector**: This is the primary collector for transfers in the OSG. Use `CollectorHost="gratia-osg-prod.opensciencegrid.org:80"`.

Reviewer 2: @matyasselmeci this guide is full of manual Gratia probe configuration. Does `osg-configure` handle GridFTP probe config?

1. **OSG-ITB Transfer Collector**: This is the test collector for transfers in the OSG. Use `CollectorHost=" gratia-osg-itb.opensciencegrid.org:80"`.

> ### Starting the service

Reviewer 2: Instead of this separate section, I'd model the `Managing GridFTP` section after [this HTCondor-CE](https://opensciencegrid.org/docs/compute-element/install-htcondor-ce/#using-htcondor-ce) section

Author: done

Once the configuration file is edited, as described above, we will proceed to start the service.

for CentOS 7:

```console
systemctl start gratia-probes-cron
```

for CentOS 6:
```console
service gratia-probes-cron start
```

### Validation

Run the Gratia probe once by hand to check for functionality:

``` console
root@host # /usr/share/gratia/gridftp-transfer/gridftp-transfer_meter
```

Look for any abnormal termination and report it if it is a non-trivial site issue. Look in the log files in `/var/log/gratia/<date>.log` and make sure there are no error messages printed.

> Optional configuration

Reviewer 2: Let's keep this as a sub-heading of the `Configuring GridFTP` section

Author: Done

| GridFTP   | `globus-gridftp-server`               |                                                                                        |

Start the services in the order listed and stop them in reverse order. As a reminder, here are common service commands (all run as `root`):

| To...                                   | On EL6, run the command...                  | On EL7, run the command...                      |
| :-------------------------------------- | :----------------------------------------   | :--------------------------------------------   |
| Start a service                         | `service <SERVICE-NAME> start` | `systemctl start <SERVICE-NAME>`   |
| Stop a  service                         | `service <SERVICE-NAME> stop`  | `systemctl stop <SERVICE-NAME>`    |
| Enable a service to start on boot       | `chkconfig <SERVICE-NAME> on`  | `systemctl enable <SERVICE-NAME>`  |
| Disable a service from starting on boot | `chkconfig <SERVICE-NAME> off` | `systemctl disable <SERVICE-NAME>` |

Validation
------------------

> ### GridFtp

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### GridFtP
```

> 1. Acquire a user certificate [opensciencegrid.org/docs/security/user-certs](http://opensciencegrid.org/docs/security/user-certs/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Acquire a [user certificate](/security/user-certs)
```

> 1. Find your subject DN

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Find your subject DN:
```

        :::console
        user@host # openssl x509 -in <CERITIFICATE_FILE.pem> -noout -subject

> 1. Add your DN to `/etc/grid-security/grid-mapfile` and map it to a non-root user, see:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. [Map your DN](/security/lcmaps-voms-authentication/#mapping-users) to a non-root user.
```

> [/opensciencegrid.org/docs/security/lcmaps-voms-authentication/#mapping-users]( https://opensciencegrid.org/docs/security/lcmaps-voms-authentication/#mapping-users)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 1. As the non-root user, generate your proxy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. As the non-root user, generate your proxy:
```

        :::console
        user@host # voms-proxy-init

> 1. Create a test file to be transfered

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create a test file to be transferred:
```

        :::console
        user@host # echo "Hello World!" > /tmp/hello_world

> 1. Transfer the file we just created

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Transfer the file we just created:
```

        :::console
        user@host # globus-url-copy file:///tmp/hello_world gsiftp://yourhost.yourdomain/tmp/hello_world

> 1. To verify that the authentication is working, we could remove our proxy and execute the last command again, this time it should fail.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. To verify that the authentication is working, remove your proxy and execute the last command again. This time it should fail:
```

        :::console
        user@host # voms-proxy-destroy
        user@host # globus-url-copy file:///tmp/hello_world gsiftp://yourhost.yourdomain/tmp/hello_world

> !!!note

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
!!! warning
```

>      Keep in mind that when invoked as root, `globus-url-copy` will attempt to use the host certificate instead of your user certificate, which could produce confusing results.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     Keep in mind that when invoked as root, `globus-url-copy` will attempt to use the host certificate instead of your user certificate, which may produce confusing results.
```

!!!note

>     if the binary `globus-url-copy` is not available in your system, you can get it by installing `globus-gass-copy-progs`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    If the binary `globus-url-copy` is not available on your system, you can get it by installing `globus-gass-copy-progs`:
```

>     e.g. `yum install globus-gass-copy-progs`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

        ::console
        root@host # yum install globus-gass-copy-progs
```

### Gratia Probe

1. Run the Gratia probe once by hand to check for functionality:

        :::console
        root@host # /usr/share/gratia/gridftp-transfer/gridftp-transfer_meter

1. Look in the log files in `/var/log/gratia/<date>.log` and make sure there are no error messages printed.

> 1. Look for any abnormal termination and report it if it is a non-trivial site issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Look for any abnormal termination and [report it](#getting-help) if it is a non-trivial site issue.
```
